Last section buckle up,
it's the hardest one yet.
I'm just kidding TypeScript was
definitely the hardest one yet.
Maybe Redux.
I don't know if that
one's kinda up to you.
It's not this one though.
[LAUGH] All right, we're gonna talk
about testing and I'm gonna tell you
why I'm a really good person to learn
testing from is cuz I don't like testing.
[LAUGH] I don't like testing.
So I try and
make my tests really good and I try and
write as few of them as possible so
that I can maintain them as well as I can.
My least favorite thing in
the entire world is flaky tests.
If something fails, it damn well
better to be telling me something or
it shouldn't have failed.
But I hate tests that waste my time.
So I'm going to tell you my
testing methodology was like,
let's write a small core set of very
good tests that tell me something.
I'm infamous at one of my companies
previously for just going in and
deleting all the fake flaky tests.
And like, you can't do that.
I was like,
I'm definitely going to do that.
So here we are.
Let's talk about vitest.
Every version of this course previously,
I think has used jest.
And Jest and vitest are really similar.
The reason why today we're gonna
use vitest as opposed to Jest all
previous to this is that vitest
is made to go with vite, right?
It's made by the same people.
And the nice thing about vitest is that
it reads from your vite configuration.
In other words,
we do not have to reconfigure anything.
Vite is just our vitest it's just
gonna work out of the box for us.
That seems pretty compelling
to me me personally if
I'm going to be using vite
I'll be using vitest as well.
And vitest is meant to be
a drop in replacement for Jest.
So they're meant to be API compatible
which means if you get through this
course and you don't like vite and
you wanna go back to Jest and parcel.
Or Jest and webpage or
something like that,
everything I'm about to teach
you applies to jest as well.
Or Jasmine for that matter.
Because Jasmine or J is based on
Jasmine and vitest is based on Jest.
And I think that the translative
property applies here
that therefore vitest is based on Jasmine.
And I mean none of
the testings are different.
So, this all relatively, works together.
If you really do wanna use Jest,
just go check out V4 of this course.
I use Jest in the last version.
A fun side note is that Jest used
to be a Facebook product, right?
They made Jest to test react applications.
And now just it's actually
officially an open JS project.
So it's no longer a Facebook project.
It's actually a full-on open source
community governed kind of project,
which makes me like Jest all the more.
Okay, so we're on a brand new copy
of Adopt Me on the 14-context.
And we're gonna be using vitest.
So I want you to come in and
say mpm install-D vitest@0.24.3.
And then @testing-library
/react@13.4.0.
It's worth mentioning that vitest is
made by the same people that make vite,
I think it's probably in the name that
you probably guessed that, but they are.
And vite and vitest were made for
view initially, right?
But they work just as well for react so
I have no problems endorsing vitests is a
perfectly good way of doing react testing.
Does talk a second about testing-library.
Testing-library was meant to
replace something called enzyme.
If you've been writing react long enough,
or if you've taken this class previously,
you've used enzyme.
That was made by Airbnb as like
a bunch of testing helpers for
testing react projects.
It's a huge pain in the butt and
I'm very glad that it's gone.
[LAUGH] Thank you to all
the people that made it.
It was better than nothing,
which is what we had before.
The testing-library is basically
better in every single way.
It's less flaky.
It's easier to use.
It's faster, all the good things.
Testing-library.
It's a bunch of helper functions for
testing react applications.
You do not us vitest, or
sorry, you do not use enzyme
with testing-library,
they are mutually exclusive.
One more thing, I need you to
install mpm install-D happy-DOM.
I'm gonna do happy-DOM at 7.6.0.
Many of you probably have heard of JS DOM.
It's like a node
implementation of the DOM.
We can use it to test browser
things without ever having
to spin up a browser which is very slow.
If you wanna do that you can use something
like playwright or puppeteer to do that.
Totally valid what happy DOM is is
like a minimalistic version of JS DOM.
So we don't have to spin up a browser we
can just test everything inside of node.
My advice for you is for
most things, use happy DOM.
It's small and fast.
It's not a total complete DOM like
JS DOM is, but it is much faster.
So if happy DOM works, use happy DOM.
If it doesn't, then use JS DOM.
And then as far as like puppeteer and
playwright,
my suggestion to you about like those
full featured browser environments.
Is had like, a few important tests
that you run inside of those.
And then, that's it.
Those end-to-end tests are expensive,
their flaky.
And so make sure that you're testing
really important things don't just go
willy-nilly on the end testing.
That's just my methodology testing.
Coming from someone that does
not like to write tests.
If you like writing tests,
then by all means, tell me the heck off.
Okay, so test we're gonna write
a function here called test,
and it's gonna run some vitest for us.
We don't have to be any
more specific than that.
That is it.
Fun little trick now you can
write mpm run tests, right?
Or mpm run t or if you're extra lazy
like me mpm t will run mpm test for you.
Am I in the,
I bet you I have to do this again.
Now mpm t is gonna say, hey,
you don't have any tests.
I don't know what to do about that.
So that's what you should see.
But, yeah, fun fact.
Mpm t does mpm run test for you.
I use that all the time.
Okay, one little thing to
add to your vite config.
Testing here, right?
A little testing.
And then we just wanna give
an environment of happy DOM.
By default it's gonna use
JS DOM which is much slower.
I like happy DOM it's much
faster I like fast test.
Therefore, going to generate faster texts.
All right, so now we are ready to go.
We're ready to officially
start writing tests.
So we're gonna write a test for pet.jsx.
So here's from just high level Brian Hall
thinks about testing kind of stuff.
Try to test functionality
not implementation,
which is to say like, don't test that
the hook has the correct value in it.
Test the user interface is working
the way that a user would expect it to.
In other words, try and
approach your tests like a user
approaches your application.
If I click a button, I see the thing
that I want, those kind of things.
Like try and
tell user stories through your tests.
Not always possible, sometimes you need
do to test the implementation details.
But like doing things like extensive
spying and mocking and things like that.
Generally, I don't like because
as soon as I want to change
the implementation of something to
do the same action but a better way,
I don't wanna go change on my test
to test my new implementation.
I don't care if my implementation changes.
I care if user stories break.
That's probably a better summation
of what I'm trying to say.
Every UI if I've ever worked on
changes all the time, right?
We're shipping new headers or
changing the colors.
We're moving the button.
Try not to test the UI.
If the UI is changes,
it doesn't mean it broke.
It just means it changed, right?
So I try not to do that.
A fun way of fixing bugs when I
can't figure out like I'm having
a trouble fixing a bug is I'll write
a test that fails because of that bug.
And then I'll try and fix it, until
that tests pass that has the benefit of
guaranteeing myself that I fixed the bug
and I also get to leave a test behind so
that regression doesn't happen again.
So that,
that's a lot of my tests come from that.
You should be deleting
tests on a regular basis.
You should get into
the habit of deleting tests.
If you have bad tests,
if you have old tests,
deleting tests should be
something that you think about.
And then fix or delete flaky tests.
The only flaky test I tolerate
is something like puppeteer or
something like that or playwright.
Where I'm like testing if a user clicks
here fills in these forms click submit
goes here clicks this fills this in and
I'm done testing the entire user flow.
It's just flaky.
Even the best software, even in the best
of times it's a flaky like Selenium kind
of environment, it's still worth it.
Because testing that your user can log in
and pay their bill or something like that.
It's worth a flaky test to be able
to guarantee yourself that that's
gonna happen.
Everything else if it's flaky,
delete it or fix it.
One of the two.
Okay, that makes sense?
That's my high level,
what I think about tests.
I think it's pretty reasonable.
I've arrived at that over years of like I
used to work at a company where they did
full TDD, right?
You would write all of your tests and
then you would write the code
to fulfill all of your tests.
I think it's unnecessary.
I think it's unnecessarily slow and
I don't think you get any benefit from it.
So, you can disagree with me and
you can just be wrong.
It's fine.
I'm okay with that.
I'm joking, for the most part.
There's definitely people that
would disagree with me on that.